---
title: Success Criterion 2.2.1: Timing Adjustable
category: Tested Techniques
layout: default
---

# Success Criterion 2.2.1: Timing Adjustable

- **Applies to**: <abbr title="Single A">A</abbr>, <abbr title="Double A">AA</abbr>.
- In <abbr title="Triple A">AAA</abbr>, this is superceded by [2.2.3: No Timing](./2_2_3).

## Definition

For each time limit that is set by the content, at least one of the following is true:

1.  **Turn off:** The user is allowed to turn off the time limit before encountering it; or
2.  **Adjust:** The user is allowed to adjust the time limit before encountering it over a wide range that is at least ten times the length of the default setting; or
3.  **Extend:** The user is warned before time expires and given at least 20 seconds to extend the time limit with a simple action (for example, "press the space bar"), and the user is allowed to extend the time limit at least ten times; or
4.  **Real-time Exception:** The time limit is a required part of a real-time event (for example, an auction), and no alternative to the time limit is possible; or
5.  **Essential Exception:** The time limit is essential and extending it would invalidate the activity; or
6.  **20 Hour Exception:** The time limit is longer than 20 hours.

The full ["understanding" page for Success Criterion 2.2.1](http://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/time-limits-required-behaviors.html) is available from the W3C.

## Techniques tested

### Table of contents

- [F41: Failure of SCs 2.2.1, 2.2.4, and 3.2.5 due to using meta refresh with a time-out](#tech-f41)

### <a id="tech-f41">F41: Failure of Success Criteria 2.2.1, 2.2.4, and 3.2.5 due to using meta refresh with a time-out</a>

[Detailed information about failure F41](http://www.w3.org/TR/2010/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20101014/F41) is available from the W3C.

It is considered a failure to use the Refresh mechanism, either using the Refresh header or meta tag with a http-equiv attribute of "refresh", to implement an automatic refresh or redirect after a certain period of time. Generally speaking, it is not changeable by users, and this can cause problems - even for sighted users who may be disoriented by them.

An example is given regarding screen readers: because blind users cannot "skim" through text using a screen reader like sighted users can, they might not get through all the content before an automatic refresh occurs.

Using meta refresh with a value of zero (to implement an immediate redirect) is not a violation of this Success Criterion, however server-side redirects are recommended even more so.

#### Testing

> 1. Find meta elements in the document.
> 2. For each meta element, check if it contains the attribute http-equiv with value "refresh" (case-insensitive) and the content attribute with a number (representing seconds) greater than 0.
