---
title: Success Criterion 2.4.1, Bypass Blocks
layout: default
---

# Success Criterion 2.4.1: Bypass Blocks

- **Applies to**: <abbr title="Single A">A</abbr>, <abbr title="Double A">AA</abbr>, <abbr title="Triple A">AAA</abbr>.

## Definition

A mechanism is available to bypass blocks of content that are repeated on multiple Web pages.

The full ["understanding" page for Success Criterion 2.4.1](http://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/navigation-mechanisms-skip.html) is available from the W3C.

## Techniques tested

### Table of contents

- [H50: Using map to group links](#tech-h50)
- H64: Using the title attribute of the frame and iframe elements

### <a id="tech-h50">H50: Using map to group links</a>

[Detailed information about technique H50](http://www.w3.org/TR/2010/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20101014/H50) is available from the W3C. *Note:* An earlier version of the Techniques for WCAG 2.0 document (dated 11 December 2008) stated that wrapping the links in a list was also sufficient for technique H50, however this has been recinded in the current version (14 October 2010), and now only mentions the map element.

> The objective of this technique is to demonstrate how to group links into logical sets using the map element. When links are grouped into logical sets (for example, in a navigation bar or main menu that appears on every page in a site) they should be marked up as a unit.

Normally, the map element is used for client-side image maps (using the area element), however they do not have to be used for this purpose. HTML 4's definition of map states that "The MAP element may be used without an associated image for general navigation mechanisms", while HTML5 currently does not place restrictions on its content either, allowing area elements to be "defined in conjunction with other content on the page, to ease maintenance".

In the case of HTML5, it is up for debate as to whether a semantic element such as nav (or header or footer) is better for this.

[WCAG 1.0's techniques document specifies the same technique](http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG10-HTML-TECHS/#group-bypass) for some of its checkpoints.

HTML_CodeSniffer currently emits a warning if it finds two or more links in a paragraph or list. This is currently indiscriminate (hence the warning) but the intention is to eventually limit this so that it only warns if the links take up a certain proportion of the text in that element.

### Testing

> Examine the content for anchor [a] elements which are to be grouped together.
> 1. Check that the anchor elements are grouped using map elements.
