---
title: Success Criterion 3.2.2: On Input
category: Tested Techniques
layout: default
---

# Success Criterion 3.2.2: On Input

- **Applies to**: <abbr title="Single A">A</abbr>, <abbr title="Double A">AA</abbr>, <abbr title="Triple A">AAA</abbr>.

## Definition

Changing the setting of any user interface component does not automatically cause a change of context unless the user has been advised of the behavior before using the component.

**Changes in context** include changes of: user agent; viewport; focus; [or] content that changes the meaning of the Web page.

The full ["understanding" page for Success Criterion 3.2.2](http://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/consistent-behavior-unpredictable-change.html) is available from the W3C.

## Techniques tested

### Table of contents

- [H32: Providing submit buttons]

### <a id="tech-h32">H32: Providing submit buttons</a>

Includes the following techniques:

- The general technique [G80: Providing a submit button to initiate a change of context](http://www.w3.org/TR/2010/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20101014/G80)
- The HTML equivalent technique [H32: Providing submit buttons](http://www.w3.org/TR/2010/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20101014/G32)

Providing a submit button suggests that a user will be able to use that submit button to explicitly trigger a change in context, rather than it being placed out of their control by a web page. (That this criterion is successful depends, of course, on the author not doing such latter things.)

In HTML, the three elements that count as submit buttons are:

- input element with type "submit" - providing a normal button that submits.
- input element with type "image" - providing an image submit button.
- button element with type "submit" - providing a normal submit button that can be more richly styled than the equivalent input element.

#### Testing

The testing procedure for H32 is:

1. Find all forms in the content.
2. For each form, check that it has a submit button (input type="submit", input type="image", or button type="submit").

The general version of the procedure in technique G80 is fundamentally equivalent, without the specific examples of buttons in HTML.

#### Examples

1.  Successful usage(s) of a submit button.

        <!-- Using input type="submit". -->
        <form action="submit1.php" method="GET">
            <input type="submit" value="Submit Form" />
        </form>

        <!-- Using input type="image". -->
        <form action="submit2.php" method="GET">
            <input type="image" src="submit.png" alt="Submit Form" />
        </form>

        <!-- Using button type="submit". -->
        <form action="submit3.php" method="GET">
            <button type="submit">Submit Form</button>
        </form>

#### Errors

1.  A form does not have a submit element (one of the above) contained within.

    Example:

    <form>
    </form>
