---
title: Success Criterion 3.2.5: Change On Request
category: Tested Techniques
layout: default
---

# Success Criterion 3.2.5: Change On Request

- **Applies to**: <abbr title="Triple A">AAA</abbr> only.

## Definition

Changes of context are initiated only by user request or a mechanism is available to turn off such changes.

**Changes in context** include changes of: user agent; viewport; focus; [or] content that changes the meaning of the Web page.

The full ["understanding" page for Success Criterion 3.2.5](http://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/consistent-behavior-no-extreme-changes-context.html) is available from the W3C.

## Techniques tested

### Table of contents

- [H83: Using the target attribute to open a new window on user request and indicating this in link text](#tech-h83)

### <a id="tech-h83">H83: Using the target attribute to open a new window on user request and indicating this in link text</a>

Using target="_blank" states that the link will open in a new window. It can be used in the Transitional doctypes of HTML 4.0 and XHTML 1.0, as well as HTML5. The [W3C explanation of technique H83](http://www.w3.org/TR/2010/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20101014/H83) explains:

> Use of the target attribute provides an unambiguously machine-readable indication that a new window will open. User agents can inform the user, and can also be configured not to open the new window. For those not using assistive technology, the indication would also be available from the link text.

Popup blockers aside, being "configured not to open the new window" would probably include options in newer browsers to open pages in new tabs instead of windows, sometimes in the background. (In the background case, the context does not change, but that may not be the best design for those needing assistance, because the user may think the link has had no effect.)

Not all document types (notably the Strict doctypes of HTML 4.0 and XHTML 1.0) support the target attribute. The suggested alternative is to use the notion of [progressive enhancement for user agents that support JavaScript](http://www.w3.org/TR/2010/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20101014/SCR24) to add the new window action and text. Where JavaScript is not applicable, the user

#### Testing

1.  Activate each link in the document to check if it opens a new window.
2.  For each link that opens a new window, check that it uses the target attribute.
3.  Check that the link text contains information indicating that the link will open in a new window.

For this technique to satisfy the success criterion, items 2 and 3 have to be correct. Links which don't satisfy item 2 can be satisfied using alternative techniques (such as SCR24) where available.

#### Examples

1.  Link states that the link will open in a new window.

    Example:

        <p><a href="htmlcs.html" target="_blank">Read more about HTML_CodeSniffer (in a new window)</a>.</p>

#### Warnings

1.  A link defined using target="_blank" does not mention that it is a new window.

    This is only thrown as a warning. We search for a mention of the words "new window" (not case-sensitive) in the link text. However, absence of these words do not mean it has been phrased another way, or described elsewhere.

    Example:

        <p><a href="htmlcs.html" target="_blank">Read more about HTML_CodeSniffer</a>.</p>
